let's start with the solution and then
talk about the problem people say
they're against censorship in fact what
they're against is unfairness and thus
unfair censorship here on YouTube if
nobody is allowed to show nudity if
nobody is allowed to show nipples it's a
very simple rule across the board it can
be consistent transparent and fair and
we all know there are other websites
that do allow you and do encourage you
to show female nudity to show nipples so
on and so forth the problem is not
censorship as such the problem is
unfairness inconsistency and lack of
transparency there's a YouTube channel
based in New York City now has a huge
number of viewers called sneak oh he had
nude images of a conventionally
attractive blonde female on his channel
and they were edited in from a movie he
was talking about so this wasn't like
nudity that happened accidentally or
spontaneously during a live stream okay
this was intentionally placed in nudity
and this wasn't nudity in the context of
a medical lecture about how to perform
surgery properly there have been
exceptions like that in the past
legitimate medical use exceptions for
nudity or something know his channel was
not punished in any way I didn't check
today but just a couple of weeks ago
when I saw that I was really shocked by
it hasn't the particular video hasn't
been taken down his channel hasn't been
demonetised deleted or punished okay my
channel has been punished repeatedly
even just within the last two months not
even for nudity but for discussions or
imagery that draws attention to a female
body part even if there's no nudity
involved okay so to give an example just
a couple days ago a couple weeks ago I
mentioned Kim Kardashian in passing and
I had the cover
of a magazine pop-up as an image here on
screen and she's wearing a bikini she's
covering the bikini area more it's not
it's not showing you anything you
haven't seen before it's probably not
showing you any part of Kim Kardashian
in particular you haven't seen we just
popped up in passing in the back and
that channel sorry that video was
punished for trying attention to female
body parts even if there was no nudity
so you have this tremendous sense of
unfairness in inconsistency and you sit
there and wonder why is it that this
other youtuber sneaked Oh has
intentionally erotic nudity again of a
conventionally good-looking actress clip
from a movie it's a movie he's
discussing he can get away with that
right I can't get away with any question
getting with I don't see anything wrong
whatsoever I can't get away with
discussions of my sex life with no
illustrations I can't get away with
showing the cover of a magazine for like
four seconds in passing when it's
appropriate to the conversation it's
reminding you of who or what it is I'm
talking about okay this is the problem
with YouTube I mean you'd think nudity
is something so simple that if you have
a censorship policy against nudity you
don't have to define what it means but
you do and if you have a policy against
racism you have to define what racism
means we're having this discussion today
because somewhat buried under the
avalanche of recent news is the fact
that YouTube deleted a huge number of
massively popular youtubers who were
indeed in my opinion racist
I would not dispute for a moment that
stefan molyneux was racist I would even
say he was a self-aware intentional
racist he was cognitively racist and
again we have this one word racism that
covers many different things I think
someone who is intentionally deploying
racist arguments in pursuit of a
political objective is
very different from say someone who
loses his temper while playing a video
game and shouts something racist at the
screen that's not good I don't encourage
it make excuses for that there was
another case a million years ago of a
guy and his girlfriend broke up with him
and got together with a black guy and he
lost his temper and since the bad things
about black people or that particular
black person that's you know it's bad
it's readable it's wrong but that's not
the same thing as people consciously and
intentionally deploying racist arguments
for political purpose as stefan molyneux
did for years but still problem is not
censorship the problem is transparency
consistency and fairness stefan molyneux
channel was deleted but not faith Goldie
faith Goldie is a racist and she is a
racist political leader you can see
still now on YouTube conversation she's
had in which she is engaging in
explicitly white supremacist discourse
explicitly anti-semitic conspiracy
theory discourse of faith Goldie has
also stood for election then we take a
step back and we have to ask the
question is it in the public interest to
allow someone like stefan molyneux to
articulate his message precisely so that
other people can debate it can refute it
so that that discourse and that debate
can happen and let me just ask if not on
YouTube then where I wish YouTube had
competition but this is quite different
from say debating nudity on Instagram
the Instagram doesn't allow people to
show their nipples or various parts
their body there's a lot of stuff that's
about 85% nude on Instagram but they
don't allow 100% nudity try Google there
were plenty of websites with photographs
of naked women naked
man no the wall is no poorer because
Instagram doesn't allow this kind of
nudity although I utterly despise stefan
molyneux as an individual you have to
recognize there have been some brilliant
criticisms of him on YouTube it's a
brilliant reputations of him I have seen
some freely Nvidia breaking down piece
by piece and discussing precisely the
ways in which he is racist in the ways
in which he's manipulating his audience
into accepting his particular doctrine
of so-called race realism okay now is is
that worth something and further if that
can't happen here on YouTube then where
is it going to happen right so I think
it's important to focus on the solution
more than the problem here I have said
in the past that what we need is not one
YouTube but two three four many
competitors to YouTube so I'm not going
to repeat that argument again it's
tremendously important that we have
other companies with other standards of
censorship that will allow an encourage
even if it's just the level of gore that
you see on a news report on CNN or the
BBC
we can't even engage in discussion of
the war and Afghanistan is in here we
can't show news footage anymore we can't
have the the level of sexual discussion
that's on HBO you know we can neither
have fox news nor refuting fox news here
on youtube the standards of censorship
have become so narrow that to say they
have a chilling effect on freedom
speeches and understand so yes one one
part of the solution is going to be the
pluralization of the video platform
itself I've discussed that in the past
but you know another solution that is
really much less work for the
corporation hosting these videos or
hosting whatever content it is on your
platform anyone another solution is just
to eliminate anonymity
okay now stefan molyneux is not
anonymous uses his real name and his
real face faith Goldie is not anonymous
uses a real name and her
real face I think it's very important to
observe that by far the worst hate
speech the worst harassment the worst
abuse the worst encouragement of
violence and so on and the most
worthless Internet content to debate or
respond to her to try to engage you with
is always the anonymous content so as
bad as stefan molyneux may be I don't
think it's worthless for people to
criticize his videos to engage in a
critique and discussion and even try to
engage his fans and reconsidering and
realizing what's wrong I think that's
meaningful and for anyone who has the
patience or sense of moral duty to do so
you know over the last 10 years that's
been a meaningful chunk of what what
went on here on in YouTube politics
right so I mean you this is a problem
you can't only have one half of that
political discourse like as bad as the
racism of Stefan ball and you maybe keep
in mind we wouldn't have the anti-racist
discourse
I can't stefan molyneux if we didn't
have that there for us to criticize and
respond to so there's some value even if
the value is only in that in that
contrast there were in that debate that
arises out of his kind of however so
what I've just said about stefan
molyneux and the critique of cephalonia
i would not say that about the garbage
race-baiting content yet racist but I'm
saying race-baiting in the sense of
inciting conflict the kind of garbage
content you see on 4chan on reddit even
on Facebook and especially see it all
the time in discord
the type of you know just of hatred of
pointless self-defeating race-baiting
conflict that you see in Anonymous
forums I think that's something very
different from what we had going on here
on YouTube on the last 10 years 15 years
whatever it's being so there was an
alternative for YouTube as a company and
I think there's an alternative for many
companies who are investing in the
internet now one of the alternatives is
instead of trying to employ an
ever-expanding team of sensors to
evaluate
and calibrate their standards ever more
precisely as to what is and isn't racist
or what what isn't isn't racist enough
to get banned or punished like you know
these dotted lines that nobody can make
sense of as to why one person is bandit
and not another an alternative is just
to eliminate anonymity itself to say hey
if you want to participate in these
discussions you have to have skin in the
game you have to be willing to put your
own face your own name and your own
professional reputation on the line if
you're gonna state these racist views if
you're gonna engage in these debates and
you know maybe I'm a reckless optimist
but I think that when people do that
there is the real potential for change
there's the real potential that they can
become educated that they can change
their own view of the world that they
could learn from the experience of
voicing and sharing their views hearing
back reconsidering and then moving on
and that's what we're losing on YouTube
right now you may think that racism is
something as easily defined and as
easily punished as nudity on this
platform YouTube is at a great deal of
trouble defining nudity and punishing
people for posting nudity already as
mentioned right you may have seen
examples in the news you may know
examples from your own life of someone
who's accused of being racist let's
specify a white person is accused of
being racist against black people and
then in response to these allegations
the white person reveals or draws
attention to the fact that they're
actually married to a black person and
raising black kids whether those their
own kind of half black kids or they have
adopted kids or foster kids and like
they reveal that and they just put up a
photograph of themselves with their
black family at a black church on Sunday
and they say look they actually live in
the black community and this these
aren't you at all every so often there
are controversies at that in the news
and of course you may also have the
experience in life it's quite possible
to meet white people who are married to
black people who are nevertheless racist
it may be an interesting aspect of the
context to abate someones views they may
nevertheless up racist views while
having black married into a black family
or while being part
community so life's full of those kinds
of unexpected contradictions all right
my first wife is French
my daughter is French and growing up in
France I have had YouTube D monetize and
soft sensor my videos for being racist
against French people and when you read
the details of precisely what YouTube
said it's not just that they're racist
against the French YouTube claims it's
not just that they're biased against the
French the claim is that my video was
hate speech against a minority group
meaning the French that the video
constituted hate speech against the
French and what was I criticizing France
for what was that criticizing French
culture for in that video I was
criticizing them for their lack of
interest in washing their hands their
poor standards of hygiene in restaurants
in grocery stores in bakeries and even
in hospitals I talked about a lot of the
bad experiences I had with French people
refusing to wash their hands lacking any
concept of culturally the germ theory of
disease of transmitting illness by
handling food with unclean hands and
then eating it okay now there are a
couple levels to this here game what if
YouTube is right what if I really do
have some kind of bias against the
French what if I'm pretty Syst against
the French what if that video even is
hate speech is what if YouTube is right
isn't there still some value in me being
able to come on camera and share with an
audience my negative experience of what
it was like living in France you know
whether that's reasonable or
unreasonable couldn't that be of some
value to the audience couldn't that be
of some value to me if people get in
touch with me and carry on the discourse
and carry on the debate and end up
educating me or deprogramming me or
change
my perspective where I gained some kind
of new perspective on France or the
bracele something positive could could
come into that way and then again also
just like stefan molyneux what if it's
significant partly because of the
reputation of it but what if my bias
against the French is also important and
meaningful because it generates this
kind of counter discourse YouTube's
fundamental problem is as I've already
said a lack of competition a lack of any
viable alternative
YouTube's recent decision to delete so
many major influential racist channels
was covered in Forbes magazine this is
real news this has real consequences we
live in an era when I hope this doesn't
last forever I hope this is a brief
moment in the history of the world were
the most important platform for
publishing the most important speaker's
corner the Agora of our political
discourse the Penix of our political
discourse of all the important debates
at our time this this is where Donald
Trump comes to make his political
statements this is where Bernie Sanders
comes to make his political statements
across the whole political spectrum
YouTube is the crucial theater where
contrasting political views come to be
heard and the corporation that owns
YouTube has decided to narrow and narrow
to tighten and tighten the rules on
censorship and the problem is again not
that censorship itself is bad or evil or
wrong but that when we accept censorship
when we accept it it has to be on the
basis of consistency transparency and
fairness the lack of those three things
the lack of consistency the lack of
transparency the lack of fairness in how
YouTube's
Census your policies are applied make it
unacceptable for all of us
I have within just the last 1 month I
have repeatedly been punished for videos
containing so-called hate speech
including as I mentioned he's alleged
hate speech against the French my
channel is in danger of being deleted
for so-called racism right now because I
dared to engage in a productive and
healthy critique of the leadership of
black lives matter doing such outrageous
things as looking up the authors serve
heard me looking up the founders of the
movement reading the books and book
chapters they'd written discussing their
writing discussing their political
leadership discussing what's going on in
the movement and what I think is a
really healthy and productive way not
only do I feel strongly that my videos
about black lives matter not only do I
feel my videos are not racist I think
there's a really insidious form of
racism in the lack of critique directed
towards black lives matter and its
leaders I think there's profoundly
unsettling racism the fact that nobody
else read the books the articles and the
chapters these people published
nobody else looked into the intellectual
underpinning to this movement and
question who are these people what are
the objectives with every but I think
one of the greatest problems with black
lives matter is what is called the soft
bigotry of low expectations there's been
so little critical interests in
evaluating who the leaders are with the
position but we have a lesson right here
right now unfolding that YouTube will
not allow me to engage in that critique
will not allow me to engage in that
political discourse if this is not a
chilling effect on freedom of speech on
the most important most constitutionally
protected form of political free speech
what is